Hello, welcome back to the
challenge 2 solution for section 20.
So I'm in the section 20
workspace, and I'm in the
challenge_2_solution project.
And what I'd like to do is
just go over my solution.
This is a really, really
straightforward program.
If you're not used to thinking
abstractly with stl containers
and iterators and so forth, then
it becomes much more difficult.
But once you really take advantage
of using the power of the stl,
it makes much, much easier.
So here's what I've got going on here.
I've got my song class, which
we've already talked about.
It's very straightforward.
I talked about that
in the previous video.
And I'm going to scroll down to the
methods that we're going to implement.
So here is the display
menu which i gave you.
And here's that very first
method you had to implement,
play the current song.
So I'm being passed in a song object.
What do I do?
I just say playing,
and I display the song.
Simple as that, the song class
overloads my stream insertion operator
so it becomes basically a one-liner.
The next one is displaying
the actual playlist.
And again, really straightforward.
What am I getting, I'm
getting the playlist, which
is a list of song objects.
And I'm also getting the current
song because I want to display both
of them that way I have all the
information I need in the display.
All I'm doing is arranged based
for loop over the playlist.
I'm grabbing the song that's there and
displaying it, just like we did here.
So we're using the overloaded
insertion operator.
That's going to display all the
songs in the playlist in the loop.
And then I'm just going to
say the current song that's
playing is current song.
This code is the same as this code.
I could have called this function
from there, either way is fine.
And now let's look at the main.
That's the real workhorse.
You can see that I am
defining playlist right here.
And this of course is main.
I'm initializing it to these six songs.
You could choose any songs you like.
This right here is so important.
If you forget to do this,
you can run into issues.
That's why I gave you
that one line in the code.
Current song is an iterator
to a song in a std list.
And I'm setting it to the beginning.
So in other words, I'm always starting
right at that first song up there.
And then I'm displaying
the playlist what.
Am I passing in I'm passing in the
playlist, and I'm passing in the song.
Remember, current song is an iterator.
So I need to de-reference
that iterator to get to the
song that it's pointing to.
To be double safe and to use defensive
programming, you always want to make
sure that that is actually pointing
to the list and not off the list.
But in this case, I'm sure I'm not
off the list anywhere in this program.
So I'm not doing it, but defensive
programming probably would be a
good idea to check to make sure that
iterator is not pointing off the list.
Okay, so now we're in the loop.
And we've got a character
variable that's where I'm going
to read the user selection into.
I'm displaying the menu.
I'm reading their selection.
I'm making the selection uppercase
that way I don't have to use
ors here in my if statements.
And if the selection is f, that
means we're playing the first song.
I'm just displaying this little message
right here, just playing for a song.
And I'm setting the iterator
current song equals playlist.begin.
That's the first element in
the list, the first song.
That's it, and I'm
calling play current song.
And I'm dereferencing that
iterator and passing this song in.
That'll display that,
that song is playing.
And these little messages here I've
got one here and I've got one here.
You don't really don't need
those, but I just put them in
there that way you can explicitly
see these functions working.
So let's look at next.
I'll scroll up just a bit.
So here we're going
to play the next song.
What do I do.
I increment the iterator.
Now it's possible that I was on the
last song, and now I'm off the list.
So I really need to
be -- I need to check here.
So if the current song is
equal to playlist end, that
means I'm off the list, right.
I just pressed next, and
I was on the last song.
So what I need to do here is wrap to
the start of the playlist and then
set my iterator to the beginning, and
then we probably press current song.
Now if I'm not at the end, then I
was somewhere at the beginning or
in the middle, it's not a big deal.
That's it, that's the logic right here.
For previous, it's very similar.
So I'm displaying
playing previous song.
And I'm checking to see if the current
song is equal to the first song,
then I need to wrap around, right.
So in this case, I need to set
the current song to the end.
Now notice what happens here.
Remember, here's my list.
And this is the end of the list, right.
This is just a placeholder.
There's no song there.
So I want to set it to there because
in the next line, I want to decrement
it and bring it right back to here.
So that way I don't have to
duplicate code all over the place.
So that's it.
I decrement the song.
And I call play current
song with the song.
And now it's going to be
playing the last song if I was
at the beginning of the list.
Otherwise, it's just going
to play the previous one.
The edition right here
where we're adding songs.
I've got some variables.
I've got my name, my artist,
which is strings and the rating.
I've got this line of code where
if I provided in your description
this just clears out anything
that's in standard in or cin.
In case, you've got garbage characters
in there or extra returns from
processing, this is just a good
practice to get into whenever you
really need to just clear out stuff
I don't want anything in there.
So I'm just clearing everything out,
and then I'm adding and playing a new
song, I'm displaying that message.
And I'm asking the user to
enter the name of the song,
the artist and the rating.
And once I have that, I'm creating a
new song based on that information.
And I'm inserting using
playlist.insert and current song,
remember, that's my iterator.
So I'm inserting it before that.
That's the behavior.
I could use in place here
as well, whatever you like.
Now what happened was,
remember, here was my iterator,
which was current song.
It's pointing here.
And I just inserted that song here.
So I need to decrement
that operator to play it.
So right here is where I'm doing that.
I'm decrementing the iterator
right here and I'm playing
the song that I just inserted.
All right, now the last
couple is just real simple.
Here list, I'm just calling display
playlist, and I'm passing in the
playlist in the current song.
Q, I'm quitting anything
else is an illegal choice.
That's it, you can see it's
really straightforward, right.
I've got no looping variables.
I'm not worried about
keeping track of stuff.
The only thing I'm keeping track
of is I've got my list here.
And all I'm doing is I've got
that current song that's the only
thing that really concerns me.
I've got that current song iterator.
And all I'm doing is moving that
guy back and forth along the list.
Really, really simple.
It never invalidates because
when I'm inserting something, I'm
inserting something before it.
So all i need to do
is just move it back.
So I'm never going to invalidate that.
And the way that the code is written,
it's never going to go off the list.
So that's why I'm not checking
to make sure it's in the
list but I certainly could.
All right, I hope you
had fun with this.
I hope you've extended it as well.
If you have your solution, you think
it's really cool, post it in the Q&A.
We'll all comment on it.
All right, I'll see you in the
next video where we're going
to start talking about sets.